So we actually have a bug in the spawning of our weapon that we didn't cover in the last lecture because
it's a bit more involved than some of the other little things that we tied it up.
So the problem is around here in this setting of the animator runtime control and let me show you what
it is.
If we go to an existing weapon I'm going to go to the Fireball and just for now remove its animator
override controller.
And you'd think okay this is great.
Now we're going to use the punch animation to launch our fireball and you.
That's basically what we should be doing.
So I pick up my sword first you can see that I have my sword attack.
That's great.
But now look if I pick up the fireball instead I'm actually still using my sword attack and it looks
pretty cool to launch a fireball using the sword attack.
Well that's not what we'd intended we'd intended for it's use the default animation which is the punch.
So what's going wrong here is that the animator override that we have in our weapon is set to No.
And so what it does is instead of setting it to a default value in the animated runtime setting this
runtime animator controlled to a default value it actually doesn't set it at all.
So it's whatever it was set to before which in our case was the last weapon that was equipped.
So that's not really what we want.
In fact this runtime animator controller is just if we go over to AB player it is just this controller
here.
It's the property that is said to be controller in the animator.
So we when we set an override controller we're basically saying hey let's replace that with this fireball
animator override.
You can just do that even in the editor.
I'm just gonna undo that though because we want our default controller to be that.
So how can we go about replacing that when there is for example this fireball animator override controller.
How can we say Okay now we don't have an animator set I don't have an override set.
We want to go back to that default.
Well the trick is in knowing that the the way that the animator overwrite controller inherits from each
other.
So the animator override controller the animators are gonna say this right.
The runtime animator controller is the root class whereas the animator override control if we go and
have a look at that.
You can have a look at the class definition for it.
The animator override controller inherits from the runtime animator controller and it adds a lot of
stuff on top of it.
And one of the properties that it has that the runtime animator controller does not have is this.
It has a property called runtime animator controller.
And what's that.
That is just the property of which animated controller.
This override controller is overriding.
So you can see that we have that on our animator override for example we can do animator override dot
runtime animated controller and that will get us to the basically the parents which is the thing we
want to set here.
So we'd like to basically do this but this is the wrong logic because this is in the case where we have
an animator override controller to reference in the weapon.
We don't have an animator override controller to reference when the animator override is null.
So let's actually have a look.
So in the case where it is now we want to do and else basically else we are going to do this case that
is no and what we want to say is there's two situations basically maybe the previous animator was already
set to the default at runtime animated controller in which case we don't have to do anything.
We'd know that because the type would be the runtime animator controller.
The other situation is that it has already been overridden in which case the type would be the animator
override controller.
How do we find out the type where we can do it by trying to cast our animator runtime override controller.
So let's try that animator runtime ever controller and we're going to try and cast it like this using
the as operator because if this fails it returns no.
And then we're going to do animator tried to cast it to the animator override controller and I'm just
gonna go and store this in a variable I'm going to use the var key word here because we've just said
what type it's gonna be and it's going to make the line really long.
If I don't use the keyword to call this the override controller and basically as I said this will be
no if the thing in here is just the runtime animator controller it is just the root thing the character
animates controller otherwise it will have the value of the runtime animated controller or rather the
animator override controller that is in the runtime animator controller slot so we can use this to say
hang on if the.
This is not null.
So if override controller is not no then we want to go ahead and set the animator runtime animator controller
to what what do we want to set it to.
So remember that the animator override controller has a property that points to its parent.
The character in our case what would that.
How can you use that case.
So the way we're going to use that is to say the animator overwrite and the animated runtime animator
controller is going to be equal to the override controllers runtime animator controller.
Basically we're saying if it's already an override find its parent and put that in the runtime animator
slot instead.
So that should do the trick.
Now I'm just gonna do a little bit of tidying up I don't like this nesting of if statements I'm gonna
put this cast actually just outside of if statements like So and then I'm going to turn this into an
hourglass if like so it just takes away one level of nesting and keeps things a little bit tidier fixed
my indentation.
Okay now let's give that shot let's see if it's going to work now.
I've got to go and pick up the sword.
First of all we know that that switches over the animation to being the sword animation.
Now if I go and pick up the fireball it should switch it back.
It should say hey sword what is your parent's controller.
And let's put that as the runtime override.
Now I'm going to cast and they go we're using the punch animation to fire our fireballs.
So that has fixed the bug hopefully understand a little bit better.
The hierarchy between runtime animates controllers and animator override controllers as well.
And we've got a working system.